HTTP 

Development of HTTP was initiated by Tim Berners-Lee at CERN in 1989 


HTTP/2 (originally named HTTP/2.0) is a major revision of the HTTP network protocol used by the World Wide Web. It was derived from the earlier experimental SPDY protocol,
originally developed by Google. 

HTTP/2 is the first new version of HTTP 


The standardization effort was supported by Chrome, Opera, Firefox, Internet Explorer 11, Safari, Amazon Silk, and Edge browsers.

Most major browsers had added HTTP/2 support by the end of 2015. About 97% of web browsers used have the capability

HTTP

HTTP stands for hypertext transfer protocol & it is used in client-server communication.
By using HTTP user sends the request to the server & the server sends the response to the user.

Types

we will focus mainly on HTTP/1.1 which was created in 1997 & 

the new one is HTTP/2 which was created in 2015.

For instance, when someone navigates to some.com on their laptop, their web browser sends an HTTP request to the servers for the content that appears on the page. Then,
concern servers send HTTP responses with the text, images, and formatting that the browser displays to the user.

TCP

TCP, short for Transmission Control Protocol, is a communication standard that enables 
application programs and computing devices to exchange data and/or messages over networks.


The client determines the IP address and port number from the URL and proceeds to establish a TCP connection to the server
Once the connection is set up, the client sends the HTTP request and the server reads it .
Once the server gets the entire request message, it processes the request, performs the requested action  and writes 
the data back to the client. The client reads it  and processes the response data .

Differences between HTTP/2 and HTTP/1.1

HTTP/1.1--textual    
HTTP2 is binary
HTTP2 is fully multiplexed, instead of ordered and blocking
HTTP2 can, therefore, use one connection for parallelism

HTP2 uses header compression to reduce overhead--HPACK

Small files load more quickly than large ones. To speed up web performance, both HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 compress HTTP messages to make them smaller. However,
HTTP/2 uses a more advanced compression method called HPACK that eliminates redundant information in HTTP header packets.

HTTP2 allows servers to “push” responses proactively into client caches.

HTTP/2 solves this problem by allowing a server to "push" content to a client before the client asks for it--its like table of contents or sample data.






